.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1999 Tim Martin
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.TH sasl_server_init "26 March 2000" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_init \- SASL server authentication initialization


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl.h>
.sp
.BI "int sasl_server_init(const sasl_callback_t " *callbacks ", "
.BI "                     const char " *appname ");"

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_server_init()
initializes SASL. It must be called before any calls to
sasl_server_start. This call initializes all SASL mechanism drivers
(e.g. authentication mechanisms). These are usually found in the
/usr/lib/sasl directory but the directory may be overriden with the
SASL_PATH enviornment variable. The
.I callbacks
parameter specifies the base callbacks for all client connections. See
the sasl_callbacks man page for more information.
.I appname
is the name of the application. It is used for where to find the
default configuration file.
.PP

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

sasl_server_init returns an integer which corresponds to one of the
following codes. SASL_OK is the only one that indicates success. All
others indicate errors and should either be handled or the
authentication session should be quit.


.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B SASL_OK
Success
.TP 0.8i
.B SASL_BADVERS
Mechanism version mismatch
.TP 0.8i
.B SASL_BADPARAM
error in config file
.TP 0.8i
.B SASL_NOMEM
not enough memory to complete operation

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 2222
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR other sasl stuff
.BR 
.BR 