.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1999 Tim Martin
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.TH sasl_listmech "26 March 2000" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_listmech \- Retrieve a list of the supported SASL mechanisms


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl.h>
.sp

.BI "int sasl_listmech(sasl_conn_t *" conn ", "
.BI "		       const char *" user ", "
.BI "		       const char *" prefix ", "
.BI "		       const char *" sep ", "
.BI "		       const char *" suffix ", "
.BI "		       char **" result ", "
.BI "		       unsigned *" plen ", "
.BI "		       unsigned *" pcount ");"

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_listmech()
returns a string listing the SASL names of all the mechanisms available to the specified user. This is typically given to the client through a capability command or initial server response. Client applications need this list so that they know what mechanisms the server supports.

.I conn
the SASL context for this connection
.I user
(optional) restricts the mechanism list to only those available to the user.
.I prefix
appended to beginning of result
.I sep
appended between mechanisms
.I suffix
appended to end of result
.I result
NULL terminated result string (allocated by library)
.I plen
length of result filled in by library. May be NULL
.I pcount
Number of mechanisms available. May be NULL

.nf
Example:

sasl_listmech(conn,NULL,"(",",",")",&mechlist,NULL,NULL);


may give the string 
.BI (ANONYMOUS,KERBEROS_V4,DIGEST-MD5)
as a result
.PP

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

sasl_server_step returns an integer which corresponds to one of the
following codes. SASL_OK indicates that the authentication is
complete. All other return codes indicate errors and should either be
handled or the authentication session should be quit.

.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B SASL_OK
Success. Authentication complete
.TP 0.8i
.B SASL_CONTINUE
Success. keep going.
.TP 0.8i
.B SASL_INTERACT
user interaction needed to fill in prompt_need list
.TP 0.8i
.B SASL_BADVERS
Mechanism version mismatch
.TP 0.8i
.B SASL_BADPARAM
error in config file
.TP 0.8i
.B SASL_NOMEM
not enough memory to complete operation

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 2222
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR other sasl stuff
.BR 
.BR 