.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1999 Tim Martin
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.TH sasl_getsecret_t "26 March 2000" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_getsecret_t \- The SASL callback for secrets (passwords)


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl.h>

.sp
.BI "int sasl_getsecret_t(sasl_conn_t " *conn ", "
.BI "                     void " *context ", "
.BI "		          int " id ", "
.BI "		          sasl_secret_t ** " psecret ")";

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_getsecret_t
is used to retrieve the secret from the application. A sasl_secet_t should be allocated to length sizeof(sasl_secret_t)+<length of secret>. It has two fields
.I len
which is the length of the secret in bytes and
.I data
which contains the secert itself (does not need to be null terminated).
.PP

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

SASL callback functions should return SASL return codes. See sasl.h for a complete list. SASL_OK indicates success.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 2222
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR other sasl stuff
.BR 
.BR 