.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1999 Tim Martin
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.TH sasl_callbacks "26 March 2000" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_callbacks \- How to work with SASL callbacks


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl.h>

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_callbacks
are used when the application needs some information from the
application. Common reasons are getting for getting usernames and
passwords. A client MUST specify what callbacks they support in the
sasl_client/server_init() or sasl_client/server_new() calls. If an
authentication mechanism needs a callback that the application does
not state it supports it cannot be used. 

If a callback has an
.B id
parameter that should be checked to make sure you are giving the appropriate value.

If an application is using the client side of the library functions to handle the callbacks are not necessary. Instead the application may deal with callbacks via SASL_INTERACT's. See sasl_client_start/step() for more information.

The list of callbacks follows:

 sasl_getopt_t     client/server: Get an option value
 sasl_log_t        client/server: Log message handler
 sasl_getpath_t    client/server: Get path to search for mechanisms
 sasl_getsimple_t  client: Get user/language list
 sasl_getsecret_t  client: Get authentication secret
 sasl_chalprompt_t client: Display challenge and prompt for response
 sasl_authorize_t  server: Authorize policy callback
 sasl_server_getsecret_t server: User secret database read
 sasl_server_putsecret_t server: User secret database write
.PP

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

SASL callback functions should return SASL return codes. See sasl.h for a complete list. SASL_OK typically indicates success.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 2222
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR other sasl stuff
.BR 
.BR 