.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1999 Tim Martin
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.TH sasl_getopt_t "26 March 2000" SASL "SASL man pages"
.SH NAME
sasl_getopt_t \- The SASL get option callback


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sasl.h>

.sp
.BI "int sasl_getopt_t(void " *context ", "
.BI "		     const char " *plugin_name ", "
.BI "		     const char " *option ", "
.BI "		     const cahr ** " result ", "
.BI "		     unsigned * " len ")";

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B sasl_getopt_t
is used to retrieve an option, often mechanism specific, from the
application. An example of this is requested what KERBEROS_V4 srvtab
file to use.
.I plugin_name
is the plugin this value if for.
.I option
is a string representing the option. A common option that all server
applications should handle is \"pwcheck_method\" which represents the
method for checking plaintext passwords. See the administrators guide
for a full description of this option.

.PP

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

SASL callback functions should return SASL return codes. See sasl.h for a complete list. SASL_OK indicates success.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
RFC 2222
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR other sasl stuff
.BR 
.BR 